text: update RRFS-SD documentation to align with the use of the main_aqm branch (#2)
gspetro-NOAA/ufs-srweather-app: doc/UsersGuide/BuildingRunningTesting/SRW-SD.rst

.. attention::

   SRW-SD capabilities are a new SRW App feature supported on Hera and Orion/Hercules; on other systems, users can expect only limited support.

> This chapter provides instructions for running a sample six-hour forecast for July, 22, 2019 at 0z using SRW Smoke & Dust (SRW-SD) features. These features have been merged into an SRW App feature branch from a UFS-WM Rapid Refresh Forecast System (RRFS) production branch. This forecast uses RAP data for :term:`ICs` and :term:`LBCs`, the ``RRFS_CONUS_3km`` predefined grid, and the ``FV3_HRRR_gf`` physics suite. This physics suite is similar to the NOAA operational HRRR v4 suite (Dowell et al., 2022), with the addition of the Grell-Freitas deep convective parameterization. `Scientific documentation for the HRRR_gf suite <https://dtcenter.ucar.edu/GMTB/v7.0.0/sci_doc/_h_r_r_r_gf_page.html>`_ and `technical documentation <https://ccpp-techdoc.readthedocs.io/en/v7.0.0/>`_ are available with the CCPP v7.0.0 release but may differ slightly from the version available in the SRW App.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chapter provides instructions for running a sample six-hour forecast for July, 22, 2019 at 0z using SRW Smoke & Dust (SRW-SD) features. These features have been merged into an SRW App feature branch from a UFS WM Rapid Refresh Forecast System (RRFS) production branch. This forecast uses RAP data for :term:`ICs` and :term:`LBCs`, the ``RRFS_CONUS_3km`` predefined grid, and the ``FV3_HRRR_gf`` physics suite. This physics suite is similar to the NOAA operational HRRR v4 suite (Dowell et al., 2022), with the addition of the Grell-Freitas deep convective parameterization. `Scientific documentation for the HRRR_gf suite <https://dtcenter.ucar.edu/GMTB/v7.0.0/sci_doc/_h_r_r_r_gf_page.html>`_ and `technical documentation <https://ccpp-techdoc.readthedocs.io/en/v7.0.0/>`_ are available with the CCPP v7.0.0 release but may differ slightly from the version available in the SRW App.
```

   
Users will need to change the ``ACCOUNT`` variable in ``config.yaml`` to an account they have access to. They may also wish to adjust other experiment settings. For more information on each task and variable, see :numref:`Section %s <ConfigWorkflow>`. 

> On Level 1 systems, users can find :term:`ICs/LBCs` for the SRW-SD sample case in the usual :ref:`input data locations <Data>` under ``RAP/2019072200``. Users will need to switch the data directory for :term:`ICs/LBCs` if running on Orion or Hercules, on the following lines in ``config.yaml/task_get_extrn_*:``:

Reviewer: If we use the locations below, we should probably change this line because those are not the usual input data locations.

Reviewer 2: I will update the line to remove the "usual location" bit. Good catch.

> On Level 1 systems, users can find :term:`ICs/LBCs` for the SRW-SD sample case in the usual :ref:`input data locations <Data>` under ``RAP/2019072200``. Users will need to switch the data directory for :term:`ICs/LBCs` if running on Orion or Hercules, on the following lines in ``config.yaml/task_get_extrn_*:``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Level 1 systems, users can find :term:`ICs/LBCs` for the SRW-SD sample case in the usual :ref:`input data locations <Data>` under ``RAP/2019072200``. If running on Orion or Hercules, users will need to change the data paths to :term:`ICs/LBCs` on the following lines in ``config.yaml/task_get_extrn_*:``:
```

.. code-block:: console

   task_get_extrn_ics:
     EXTRN_MDL_SOURCE_BASEDIR_ICS: /scratch2/NCEPDEV/naqfc/Chan-hoo.Jeon/aqm_sample_data/RAP_DATA_SD/${yyyymmddhh} # hera
#  EXTRN_MDL_SOURCE_BASEDIR_ICS: /work/noaa/epic/SRW-AQM_DATA/input_model_data/RAP/${yyyymmddhh} # orion/hercules
   task_get_extrn_lbcs:
     EXTRN_MDL_SOURCE_BASEDIR_LBCS: /scratch2/NCEPDEV/naqfc/Chan-hoo.Jeon/aqm_sample_data/RAP_DATA_SD/${yyyymmddhh} # hera

> #  EXTRN_MDL_SOURCE_BASEDIR_LBCS: /work/noaa/epic/SRW-AQM_DATA/input_model_data/RAP/${yyyymmddhh} # orion/hercules

Reviewer: Is there a reason not to put this data in the typical data locations? It's probably better not to use personal project space in the data paths, but I seem to recall discussing some reason why we were doing this... just don't remember what it was... ;)

Reviewer 2: Good question. My understanding is that the data are somewhat in flux with the goal being to finalize the exact file requirements during the next PI. @chan-hoo, is this assumption correct? We could move the files to a more standard location, but I'm not sure the fixed files are ready to be merged fully with the SRW data stack.

Reviewer 3: Sorry. I'll take a look at it again and get back to you soon :)

Reviewer 3: I'll move the data files into `/scratch2/NAGAPE/epic/SRW-AQM_DATA`

Reviewer 3: @BenKoziol-NOAA @gspetro-NOAA, I've copied the files and updated the sample script.

Reviewer 2: @chan-hoo - Thank you! I'll take a look at the script and update the documentation here.

> In addition to the UFS-SRW fix files, additional data files are required to run the smoke and dust experiment:
> * ``fix_smoke``: Contains analysis grids, regridding weights, a vegetation map, and dummy emissions (used when no in-situe emission files are available).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the UFS SRW fix files, additional data files are required to run the smoke and dust experiment:
* ``fix_smoke``: Contains analysis grids, regridding weights, a vegetation map, and dummy emissions (used when no in situ emission files are available).
```

* ``data_smoke_dust/RAVE_fire``: Emission estimates and Fire Radiative Power (FRP) observations derived from `RAVE <https://www.ospo.noaa.gov/products/land/rave/>`_ satellite observations.

.. note::

>    Smoke and dust fix file data has not been added to the S3 bucket. If you would like access to the fix file data necessary to run the application, please reach out the UFS-SRW team in a GitHub discussion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Smoke and dust fix file data has not been added to the `SRW App data bucket <https://registry.opendata.aws/noaa-ufs-shortrangeweather/>`_. Users and developers who would like access to the fix file data necessary to run the application should reach out the UFS SRW team in a :srw-repo:`GitHub Discussion <discussions>`.
```

     - Performs post-processing with UPP.
     - ``parm/wflow/upp_post.yaml``

.. list-table:: *Python Scripts Used by Smoke and Dust Tasks*
   :widths: 20 50 30
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Script
     - Description
   * - ``ush/smoke_dust_add_smoke.py``
     - Transfers smoke and dust related variables from FV3 tracer outputs to GFS initial conditions.
   * - ``ush/smoke_dust_fire_emiss_tools.py``
     - Calculates fire behavior and emission variables and creates input for the smoke and dust tracers.
   * - ``ush/smoke_dust_generate_fire_emissions.py``

>      - Entrypoint for the smoke and dust fire-related initial conditions generated during the ``smoke_dust`` task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Entry point for the smoke and dust fire-related initial conditions generated during the ``smoke_dust`` task.
```

>    * - ``ush/smoke_dust_add_smoke.py``
>      - Transfers smoke and dust related variables from FV3 tracer outputs to GFS initial conditions.
>    * - ``ush/smoke_dust_fire_emiss_tools.py``
>      - Calculates fire behavior and emission variables and creates input for the smoke and dust tracers.
>    * - ``ush/smoke_dust_generate_fire_emissions.py``
>      - Entrypoint for the smoke and dust fire-related initial conditions generated during the ``smoke_dust`` task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - ``ush/smoke_dust_add_smoke.py``
     - Transfers smoke and dust-related variables from FV3 tracer outputs to GFS initial conditions.
   * - ``ush/smoke_dust_fire_emiss_tools.py``
     - Calculates fire behavior and emission variables and creates input for the smoke and dust tracers.
   * - ``ush/smoke_dust_generate_fire_emissions.py``
     - Entry point for the smoke and dust fire-related initial conditions generated during the ``smoke_dust`` task.
```
